(DOCSP-29317) Document new subscribe API for Node.js (#2918)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/node/sync/flexible-sync.txt

subscribe to queries instead of or in addition to manually managing
subscriptions.

You can't create subscriptions for :ref:`Data Ingest <optimize-data-ingest>` and
:ref:`asymmetric objects <node-define-an-asymmetric-object>`.

.. important:: Flexible Sync Query Limitations

   You cannot use all queries with Flexible Sync subscriptions. 
   Refer to the :ref:`Flexible Sync RQL Limitations documentation <node-flexible-sync-rql-limitations>`
   for information on which query types are not supported. 

Prerequisites
-------------

You need to meet the following requirements before you can use Atlas Device Sync
with the Node.js SDK:

- A non-sharded Atlas cluster running 
  :manual:`MongoDB 5.0 or later </release-notes/>`.
- :github:`Realm JavaScript version 10.12.0 <realm/realm-js/releases>` or later.

In addition to the requirements, you need to set up the following to use Flexible
Sync in a Node.js client:

#. :ref:`Configure Flexible Sync on the backend <enable-flexible-sync>`.
#. :ref:`Initialize the app <node-quick-start-init-app>`
#. :ref:`Authenticate a user <node-quick-start-authenticate>` in your client project.

> #. :ref:`Open the synced Realm with a Flexible Sync configuration <node-flexible-sync-open-realm>`

Author: Good point! As part of the Node.js docs upgrade epic, I have plans to strengthen the relationship between opening a synced realm and adding subscriptions. This is a good indicator that the relationship isn't clear enough on the Open a Synced Realm page.

#. :ref:`Add subscriptions to the client application <node-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`

.. _node-subscribe-api:

Subscribe to Queries
--------------------

.. versionadded:: 12.0.0

Realm Node.js v12.0.0 adds experimental APIs that subscribe to and unsubscribe
from a query's ``Results`` list. These APIs abstract away the details of
manually adding and removing subscriptions.

Subscribe to a Query
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With :ref:`an authenticated user <node-authenticate-users>` and a
:ref:`Flexible Sync configuration <node-open-a-synced-realm>`, you can open a
synced realm and query for the objects you want to read and write. You can
``.subscribe()`` to that query to create a sync subscription for objects
matching the query:

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-basic.ts
         :language: typescript

   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-basic.js
        :language: javascript

> This creates an unnamed subscription and adds it to ``MutableSubscriptionSet``,

Author: Nice catch. I'll rephrase.

similar to :ref:`manually creating a subscription <node-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`.

Subscribe to a Query with a Subscription Name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We recommend that you name your subscriptions. This makes finding and managing
your subscriptions easier. Subscription names must be unique. Trying to add a

> subscription with the same name as an existing subscription throws an error.

Author: Hmm. Yeah, I'll look at restructuring a bit to prioritize the subscription name approach.

If you do not give your subscription a name, the name
is set to :mdn:`null <Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/null>`.

If you subscribe to the same query more than once under different names, Realm

> persists both subscriptions to the subscription set.

Author: Looking at it now, I'm not even sure this is worth covering here. The majority of the time, this isn't something people need to know about.

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-name.ts
         :language: typescript

   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-name.js
        :language: javascript

Wait for a Query Subscription to Sync
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you subscribe to a query's ``Results`` list, that list does not contain 
objects until it syncs. If your app creates Realm objects, you may not need to 
download synced data before the user works with it. However, if your app
requires data from the server before the user can work with it, you can

> specify that a subscription should ``waitForSync``:

Author: Yeah, I think "results" on its own is good enough.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-wait-first.ts
   :language: typescript

This option uses the ``FirstTime`` option, which only waits for sync to finish
when this subscription is first created. Other options include:

- ``Always``: Wait to download matching objects every time your app launches.
  The app must have an internet connection at every launch.

> - ``Never``: Never wait to download matching objects. The app needs an internet

Reviewer: Small correction: `FirstTime` is the default behavior.

> - ``Never``: Never wait to download matching objects. The app needs an internet

Author: Thank you!

  connection for the user to authenticate the first time the app launches, but
  can :ref:`open offline <ios-open-a-synced-realm-offline>` on subsequent 
  launches using cached credentials.

You can optionally specify a ``timeout`` value:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-with-timeout.ts
   :language: typescript

Unsubscribe from a Query
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can unsubscribe from a query's ``Results`` list using the ``.unsubscribe()``
API:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-unsubscribe.ts
   :language: typescript

This removes the subscription from ``MutableSubscriptionSet``,
similar to :ref:`manually removing a subscription <node-remove-subscription-by-name>`.

A ``Results`` list may still contain objects after calling ``.unsubscribe()`` 
if another subscription exists that contains overlapping objects. 

Calling ``.unsubscribe()`` does not wait for objects to be removed from the

> realm. There is no API to wait for ``.unsubscribe()`` to sync with the server.

Reviewer: Adding to the above comment. Syncing does not stop in this case, it just syncs in the background. If the subscription was named, it will be removed by name, otherwise, it will be removed by query.

- ``Always``: Wait to download matching objects every time your app launches.
  The app must have an internet connection at every launch.
- ``Never``: Never wait to download matching objects. The app needs an internet
  connection for the user to authenticate the first time the app launches, but
  can :ref:`open offline <ios-open-a-synced-realm-offline>` on subsequent 
  launches using cached credentials.

You can optionally specify a ``timeout`` value to limit how long the sync download runs:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-with-timeout.ts
   :language: typescript

Unsubscribe from a Query
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can unsubscribe from a query's results using ``unsubscribe()``:

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.sub-unsubscribe.ts
   :language: typescript

This removes the subscription from the list of active subscriptions, similar to
:ref:`manually removing a subscription <node-remove-subscription-by-name>`.

A results list may still contain objects after calling ``unsubscribe()`` 
if another subscription exists that contains overlapping objects.

> When you call .unsubscribe(), the associated subscription is removed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you call ``unsubscribe()``, the associated subscription is removed. 
```

Subscriptions are removed by name or by query if they don't have a name.

> Calling ``unsubscribe()`` does not wait for objects to be removed from the
> realm. Syncing will continue in the background, based on existing subscriptions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``unsubscribe()`` method returns before objects matching the dropped subscription are removed from the realm. Sync continues in the background based on the new set of subscriptions.
```

Tweaked wording to frame things in terms of the function return + use present tense + avoid gerunds

   legitimately null, or whether the object it links to exists but is out of
   view of the query subscription.

Get All Subscriptions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using a flexible synced realm, you can access a ``SubscriptionSet``, a
collection of subscriptions, through the :js-sdk:`realm.subscriptions <Realm.html#subscriptions>` property.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.snippet.get-subscriptions.js
    :language: javascript

.. _node-sync-add-subscription:

Add a Subscription
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Compose queries to your realm using the :ref:`query engine 
<react-native-client-query-engine>`.

In the following example, ``completed`` and ``progressMinutes`` have been set
as queryable fields in an App Services App. In the client code, we create
filtered queries and then subscribe to their results:

- Completed tasks
- Completed tasks that have taken over 120 ``progressMinutes``

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.snippet.subscribe-to-queryable-fields.js

>    :language: javascript

Reviewer 3: The code example shows "throwOnUpdate" but doesn't go into detail what that will do.  If this option is explained in another section, then it should be excluded here so that users will not inadvertantly copy said code.

Author: Ah, yeah. It's an older sample. I have no idea why that's in there.

.. _node-sync-bootstrap-initial-subscriptions:

Set Initial Subscriptions

> `````````````````````````

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Let's flatten this section out. I don't think this needs to be a subsection of Add a Subscription even though the APIs are similar.

You can add a subscription as part of opening a Flexible Sync realm. This is

> called an initial subscription. 

Reviewer 2: When/why would I want to use an initial subscription vs just adding them in my code normally?

To set initial subscriptions, include the ``initialSubscriptions`` field in
your realm's :js-sdk:`SyncConfiguration <Realm.App.Sync.html#~SyncConfiguration>`.
Within the ``initialSubscriptions`` object, add an ``update``
field set to a callback that subscribes to queries:

.. tabs-realm-languages::

   .. tab::
      :tabid: typescript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.set-initial-subscriptions.ts
         :language: typescript

   .. tab::
      :tabid: javascript

      .. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/v12/manage-subscriptions.test.snippet.set-initial-subscriptions.js
         :language: javascript

You can set ``rerunOnOpen`` to ``true`` to create the subscription every time

> your realm is opened.

Reviewer 2: This implies the default behavior is something else. Can we call out the default behavior + why you'd want to configure this?

    :language: javascript

.. note::

> 

Reviewer 2: Can't comment directly, but there's a typo in the note below: `s/throw/throws`. Also nitpick but no need for the comma before throws.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/generated/node/flexible-sync.snippet.remove-all-subscriptions.js
    :language: javascript

.. _node-flex-sync-performance-considerations:

Performance Considerations
--------------------------

API Efficiency
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Managing multiple subscriptions with the ``.subscribe()`` and ``.unsubscribe()``
APIs described in the :ref:`node-subscribe-api` section is less efficient than
performing batch updates when you manually manage subscriptions.

> For better performance when making multiple subscription changes, use the
> ``subscriptions`` API described in the
> :ref:`node-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For better performance when making multiple subscription changes, use the
``subscriptions`` API to update all the subscriptions in a single transaction. To learn how, see
:ref:`node-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields`.
```
